crosslink/README.md, before:

# Crosslink

Crosslink is a tool to assist in managing go repositories that contain multiple
intra-repository `go.mod` files. Crosslink automatically scans and inserts
replace statements for direct and transitive intra-repository dependencies.
Crosslink can generate a `go.work` file to facilitate local development of a
repository containing multiple Go modules.
Crosslink also contains functionality to remove any extra replace statements
that are no longer required within reason (see below).

## Rules

Crosslink makes certain assumptions about your repository. Due to these
assumptions the tool maintains constraints to avoid any undesirable changes.

1. By default all crosslink actions are non destructive unless specific command
    flags are provided.
2. Crosslink will only work with modules that fall under the root module
    namespace.
   - For example `example.com/crosslink/foo` falls under the
    `example.com/crosslink` namespace but `example.com/bar` does not.
   - Root module namespace is defined either by the module that exists in the
    provided `--root` flag directory or the `go.mod` file located at highest
    level of the repository.
3. Crosslink does not maintain or include version numbers in replace
   statements. Replace statements are always inserted or overwritten with no
   version numbers.
4. Crosslink allows users to `exclude` modules. Exclude means that crosslink
   will not perform any replace or pruning operations where the
   `old path == exclude path`. Operations will still be performed inside
   modules where `module path == exclude path`.

`Note:` Crosslink was developed for use in the OpenTelemetry organization.
See [opentelemetry-go](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go)
and
[opentelemetry-collector-contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib)
for working examples. If you experience a use case that crosslink fails
to handle properly, please open an issue (or even a PR!) highlighting
the discrepancy.

## Usage

### Latest Release

To utilize Crosslink install using the `go` command line interface.

`go install go.opentelemetry.io/build-tools/crosslink`

Crosslink supports the following commands and flags.

### –-root

Used to provide the path to a directory where a `go.mod` file must exist. The
root flag is available to all crosslink subcommands.

**Note: If no `--root` flag is provided then crosslink attempts to identify a git
repository in the current or a parent directory.
If no git repository exists, crosslink will return an error.**

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo

### prune / –-prune / -p

`CAUTION: DESTRUCTIVE`

Pruning will remove any dependency replacement statements for intra-repository
dependencies that are determined to not be direct or transitive dependencies.
Without pruning all intra-repository modules will be added as replace statements.
Pruning will only remove go modules that fall under the same module path
as the root module. For example,
If the root module is named `example.com/foo` and there exists a replace
statement of `example.com/foo/bar => ./bar` that is not a direct or transitive
dependency of the current `go.mod` file, it will be pruned.

**Crosslink will not remove replace statements for modules that do not
fall under the root module path even if they are not in the current
dependency graph.**

Pruning can be executed independently with no replace statements being inserted.

    crosslink prune

Pruning can also be executed in addition to a standard crosslink replace operation.

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo --prune

### –-overwrite

`CAUTION: DESTRUCTIVE`

Overwrite gives crosslink permission to update existing replacement paths
in addition to adding new ones. If crosslink identifies a direct or
transitive dependency in the intra-repository dependency graph then it will insert
or update the corresponding replace statement for that requirement.

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo --overwrite

### –-exclude

Exclude is a set of go modules that crosslink will ignore when replacing or pruning.
It is expected that a list of comma-separated values will be provided in one or
multiple calls to exclude. Excluded module names should be the old value in the
replacement path. For example, passing `example.com/test` would exclude this replace
statement from any operation `replace example.com/test => ./test`.

A single call to exclude

    crosslink --overwrite --exclude=github.com/foo/bar/modA,github.com/foo/bar/modB

Multiple calls to exclude can also be made

    crosslink –prune --exclude=example.com/foo/bar/modA, \
    example.com/foo/bar/modB \
    --exclude=example.com/foo/bar/modC \
    --exclude=example.com/foo/bar/modJ,example.com/modZ

### –-verbose / -v

Verbose enables crosslink to log all replace (destructive and non-destructive) and
pruning operations to the terminal. By default this is disabled but enabled
automatically when the –overwrite flag is provided. Verbosity can be enabled or
disabled at any time.
For non destructive operations

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo -v

Can be disabled when overwriting.

    crosslink --root=/users/foot/multimodule-go-repo --overwrite -v=false

**Quick Tip: Make sure your `go.mod` files are tracked and committed in a VCS
before running crosslink.**

### work

Creates or updates existing `go.work` file by adding use statements
for all intra-repository Go modules. It also removes use statements
for out-dated intra-repository Go modules.

    crosslink work --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo

### --go

 Go version applied when new `go.work` file is created (default "1.20").

    crosslink work --go=1.20

Commit message:

[crosslink] add --skip flag (#480)
This allows modules in monorepos to opt out of crosslink. This will be used in mdatagen in the Collector core repo for example, where mdatagen has dependencies on internal collector modules, but we don't want to use replace statements as it breaks the ability to `go install` mdatagen

---------

Signed-off-by: Alex Boten <aboten@lightstep.com>

crosslink/README.md, after:

# Crosslink

Crosslink is a tool to assist in managing go repositories that contain multiple
intra-repository `go.mod` files. Crosslink automatically scans and inserts
replace statements for direct and transitive intra-repository dependencies.
Crosslink can generate a `go.work` file to facilitate local development of a
repository containing multiple Go modules.
Crosslink also contains functionality to remove any extra replace statements
that are no longer required within reason (see below).

## Rules

Crosslink makes certain assumptions about your repository. Due to these
assumptions the tool maintains constraints to avoid any undesirable changes.

1. By default all crosslink actions are non destructive unless specific command
    flags are provided.
2. Crosslink will only work with modules that fall under the root module
    namespace.
   - For example `example.com/crosslink/foo` falls under the
    `example.com/crosslink` namespace but `example.com/bar` does not.
   - Root module namespace is defined either by the module that exists in the
    provided `--root` flag directory or the `go.mod` file located at highest
    level of the repository.
3. Crosslink does not maintain or include version numbers in replace
   statements. Replace statements are always inserted or overwritten with no
   version numbers.
4. Crosslink allows users to `exclude` modules. Exclude means that crosslink
   will not perform any replace or pruning operations where the
   `old path == exclude path`. Operations will still be performed inside
   modules where `module path == exclude path`.

`Note:` Crosslink was developed for use in the OpenTelemetry organization.
See [opentelemetry-go](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go)
and
[opentelemetry-collector-contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib)
for working examples. If you experience a use case that crosslink fails
to handle properly, please open an issue (or even a PR!) highlighting
the discrepancy.

## Usage

### Latest Release

To utilize Crosslink install using the `go` command line interface.

`go install go.opentelemetry.io/build-tools/crosslink`

Crosslink supports the following commands and flags.

### –-root

Used to provide the path to a directory where a `go.mod` file must exist. The
root flag is available to all crosslink subcommands.

**Note: If no `--root` flag is provided then crosslink attempts to identify a git
repository in the current or a parent directory.
If no git repository exists, crosslink will return an error.**

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo

### prune / –-prune / -p

`CAUTION: DESTRUCTIVE`

Pruning will remove any dependency replacement statements for intra-repository
dependencies that are determined to not be direct or transitive dependencies.
Without pruning all intra-repository modules will be added as replace statements.
Pruning will only remove go modules that fall under the same module path
as the root module. For example,
If the root module is named `example.com/foo` and there exists a replace
statement of `example.com/foo/bar => ./bar` that is not a direct or transitive
dependency of the current `go.mod` file, it will be pruned.

**Crosslink will not remove replace statements for modules that do not
fall under the root module path even if they are not in the current
dependency graph.**

Pruning can be executed independently with no replace statements being inserted.

    crosslink prune

Pruning can also be executed in addition to a standard crosslink replace operation.

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo --prune

### –-overwrite

`CAUTION: DESTRUCTIVE`

Overwrite gives crosslink permission to update existing replacement paths
in addition to adding new ones. If crosslink identifies a direct or
transitive dependency in the intra-repository dependency graph then it will insert
or update the corresponding replace statement for that requirement.

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo --overwrite

### –-exclude

Exclude is a set of go modules that crosslink will ignore when replacing or pruning.
It is expected that a list of comma-separated values will be provided in one or
multiple calls to exclude. Excluded module names should be the old value in the
replacement path. For example, passing `example.com/test` would exclude this replace
statement from any operation `replace example.com/test => ./test`.

A single call to exclude

    crosslink --overwrite --exclude=github.com/foo/bar/modA,github.com/foo/bar/modB

Multiple calls to exclude can also be made

    crosslink –prune --exclude=example.com/foo/bar/modA, \
    example.com/foo/bar/modB \
    --exclude=example.com/foo/bar/modC \
    --exclude=example.com/foo/bar/modJ,example.com/modZ

### --skip

Skip is a set of go.mod files that will not be changed by crosslink.
It is expected that a list of comma-separated values will be provided in one or
multiple calls to skip. These go.mod files will be left unchanged by
crosslink. An example where using this may be appropriate is to avoid
adding replace statements in a go module that is intended to be installed
via `go install`.

A single call to skip

    crosslink --skip cmd/example/go.mod,cmd/example2/go.mod,

Multiple calls to exclude can also be made

    crosslink --skip cmd/example/go.mod \
    --skip cmd/example2/go.mod

### –-verbose / -v

Verbose enables crosslink to log all replace (destructive and non-destructive) and
pruning operations to the terminal. By default this is disabled but enabled
automatically when the –overwrite flag is provided. Verbosity can be enabled or
disabled at any time.
For non destructive operations

    crosslink --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo -v

Can be disabled when overwriting.

    crosslink --root=/users/foot/multimodule-go-repo --overwrite -v=false

**Quick Tip: Make sure your `go.mod` files are tracked and committed in a VCS
before running crosslink.**

### work

Creates or updates existing `go.work` file by adding use statements
for all intra-repository Go modules. It also removes use statements
for out-dated intra-repository Go modules.

    crosslink work --root=/users/foo/multimodule-go-repo

### --go

 Go version applied when new `go.work` file is created (default "1.20").

    crosslink work --go=1.20
