semconvgen/README.md, before:

# Go Semantic Convention Generator

This tool is designed to generate constants in a semantic convention package for the Go API and the collector.
It may be used by other systems, but it's primary function beyond invoking the template processor is to ensure that
generated identifiers conform to Go's naming idiom, particularly with respect to initialisms and acronyms.
Other users may be served just as well by using the template processor directly.

## Installation

```shell
$ go get go.opentelemetry.io/build-tools/semconvgen
```
## Usage

```shell
$ semconvgen -i <path to spec YAML> -t <path to template> -o <path to output>
```

A full list of available options:

```
  -c, --container string   Container image ID (default "otel/semconvgen")
  -f, --filename string    Filename for templated output. If not specified 'basename(inputPath).go' will be used.
  -i, --input string       Path to semantic convention definition YAML. Should be a directory in the specification git repository.
  -o, --output string      Path to output target. Must be either an absolute path or relative to the repository root. If unspecified will output to a sub-directory with the name matching the version number specified via --specver flag.
  -s, --specver string     Version of semantic convention to generate. Must be an existing version tag in the specification git repository.
  -t, --template string    Template filename (default "template.j2")
```

Commit message:

[chore] Update semconvgen README (#305)
* [chore] Update semconvgen README

* Fix MD013/line-length lint errors

* Update --only arg options

---------

Co-authored-by: Tyler Yahn <MrAlias@users.noreply.github.com>

semconvgen/README.md, after:

# Go Semantic Convention Generator

This tool is designed to generate constants in a semantic convention package
for the Go API and the collector.
It may be used by other systems,
but it's primary function beyond invoking the template processor is to ensure
that generated identifiers conform to Go's naming idiom,
particularly with respect to initialisms and acronyms.
Other users may be served just as well by using the template processor directly.

## Installation

```shell
go get go.opentelemetry.io/build-tools/semconvgen
```

## Usage

```shell
semconvgen -i <path to spec YAML> -t <path to template> -o <path to output>
```

A full list of available options:

```txt
  -c, --container string    Container image ID (default "otel/semconvgen")
  -f, --filename string     Filename for templated output. If not specified 'basename(inputPath).go' will be used.
  -i, --input string        Path to semantic convention definition YAML. Should be a directory in the specification git repository.
      --only string         Process only semantic conventions of the specified type. {span, resource, event, metric_group, metric, units, scope, attribute_group}
  -o, --output string       Path to output target. Must be either an absolute path or relative to the repository root. If unspecified will output to a sub-directory with the name matching the version number specified via --specver flag.
  -p, --parameters string   List of key=value pairs separated by comma. These values are fed into the template as-is.
  -s, --specver string      Version of semantic convention to generate. Must be an existing version tag in the specification git repository.
  -t, --template string     Template filename (default "template.j2")
```
